hi I'm Laurie from DS and it's time to
get ready for that holiday season today
we're going to spend a little time
together and learn how to make the basic
mash free when you're making your mesh
reef you're going to use the 21 inch
size match the hardest part is going to
be choosing which mesh you want to use
there's so many options we're also going
to use the work wreath products these
are a great tool to use when making your
wreath everything you need is right
there for you
this particular one I've chosen is a 30
inch ma cherie they come in lots of
colors this is a green they come in red
blue white black the colors are endless
when we start out we want to go through
and straighten up our wreath and take
our ties that are already permanently
affixed to our wreath and getting them
together in their pairs you're going to
have an inner ring and an outer ring
we're going to work with our mesh in the
width way the easiest way I found is to
just let your row fall to the floor what
I like to do on my very first loop only
is to fold over my mesh and make a
little hem as you can see if we folded
it over about 10 inches all you're going
to do is simply gather it up in your
hand just like so and lay it in the
middle of to twist ties on the inner
ring simply pull those twists as tight
just like twists in a braid top I know
you all can do that and then we're going
to continue on you're just going to go
with that 810 inches gather your mesh up
work yourself around the inner side of
your wreath
very easy very quick don't stress too
much about your measurements you can
eyeball it as you can see this is a
really quick and easy process and the
great thing about mash is it is great
for weather indoor outdoors it will hold
up it's waterproof that it isn't smash
proof so be careful when packing up the
holiday decoration now as you can see
we're almost done with the inner ring
see how quick and easy that is we're
going to finish the last loop just pull
those twist ties tight and twist them
one time we're already done with the
inner ring now we're going to move to
the outer don't cut your mash just
continue on exactly what you've been
doing all along and just drop to the
outer ring once again pull your twist as
tight but don't keep twisting them these
ties are going to be your best friend
later on in your project if you start it
in the middle going clockwise or counter
clockwise just continue to go in the
same direction
okay we're almost to the end we have
just a couple of tasks left and as you
can see it is very quick and easy I'm
going into my last time now on my reef
this is the last tile on the Outer Ring
I'm just going to make my loop there
pull my ties twist it just like a bread
tie now to finish off my wreath I'm
simply going to take a little bit of
mesh and go back in to the original tie
on the outer ring where we started and
reconnect back in and there you have
your finished space now we'll show you
how to add ribbon okay we have our
finished base now I'm going to show you
how easy it is to add ribbon into your
creation I've chosen two ribbons today
to embellish our Reed I have a polka dot
metallic in the green and I have a
narrower red and white polka dot we're
simply going to take our ribbon and
we're going to take both of them at the
same time and I tend to just pinch them
right there together and we're simply
going to lay them in between two tabs
once again just take your ties and twist
them just like a red tab I have found
that if you run your hand along the
wired ribbon just like so it will tend
to let you know what it wants to do and
kind of guide you and where to place it
be generous so we're just going to
simply catch it and twist it back
through are we
another option when you're working with
your ribbon is that you could also make
loops as you're going along that gives
the impression of bows talk through your
wreath so I'm simply going to take my
ribbon and make my loops as I go we're
just going to go back and forth just a
simple little bow and we're going to
just catch it right in the ties of the
mesh and that will hold your ribbon in
your bow right in place just like so now
what I've chosen to do is to kind of do
an in-and-out pattern you have your
inner ring and you have your outer ring
so just spread the ribbon out and get
that color going through the entire reef
I choose to go to the outer ring and
then back in to the inner ring
we're going to put another bow in this
spot right here
and I'm just going to trim my ribbon and
have tail so as you can see quick and
easy
you